# Understand the types of Cloud deployment options

## 1.1.1. Describe a Public Cloud.

1. A public cloud is a type of **Multi-tenant** cloud computing in which a third party service provider makes computing resources, which can include anything from ready-to-use software applications, to individual VMs, to complete enterprise-grade infrastructures and development platforms—available to users over the public Internet.
2. Rescources may be accessible for free, or access might be be sold according to *subscription-based* or *pay-per-usage prcing models*.
3. The public cloud provider owns and administers the data centers where customers' workloads run. 
4. Providers Responsibility: All hardwares and infrastructure maintenance; prodvides high-bandwidth network connectivity; manages the underlying virtualization software.
5. Architectures:  **Multi-tenant** environments—users share a pool of virtual resources that are automatically provisioned for and allocated to individual tenants through a self-service interface.
6. Rapidly growing global marketing. Many enterprises are moving portions of their computing infrastructure to the public cloud because public cloud services are elastic and readily scalable, flexibly adjusting to meet changing workload demands.


## 1.1.2. Describe a Private Cloud.

1. Private cloud (also known as an internal cloud or corporate cloud) is a *single tenant enviroment*, meaning all hardware and software resources are dedicated exclusively to, and accessible only by, a single customer, this is referred to as *isolated access*.
2. Benefits: **elasticity**, **scalability**,**ease of service delivery**,**security**,**resource customization of on-premises infrastructure**
3. Private clouds can be hosted on-premises in the **customer's data center**, or **an independent cloud provider’s infrastructure** or **built on rented infrastructure housed in an offsite data center**.


## 1.1.3. Describe a Hybrid Cloud.

1. Hybrid (multi)cloud is IT infrastructure that connects at least one (more than one) public cloud and at least one (more than one) private cloud, and provides orchestration, management and application portability between them to create a single, flexible, optimal cloud infrastructure for running a company’s computing workloads. 


## Public cloud vs. Private cloud vs Hybird cloud
1. Public cloud sacrifices much of the control and security of private cloud, but provides **Greater elasticity and scalability**, **Lower cost of entry**, and **Faster access to the latest technologies**.
2. A hybrid cloud integrates public and private cloud infrastructures. In this model, the two types of cloud are joined together into a single, flexible infrastructure, and the enterprise can choose the optimal cloud environment for each individual application or workload.
