# Explain the difference between SaaS, PaaS and IaaS

## 1.2.1 Describe the usage of IaaS (Infrastructure as a service) and its benefit.
“IaaS”, is a form of cloud computing that delivers fundamental compute, network, and storage resources to consumers on-demand, over the internet, and on a pay-as-you-go basis.
#### 1.2.1.1 Server, Storage, Networking:
- **Server**:  IaaS providers will manage large **physical data centers** required to power the various layers of abstraction on top of them and that are made available to end users over the web.
- **Storage**: 1. **Block storage**, sometimes referred to as block-level storage, is a technology that is used to store data files on Storage Area Networks (SANs) or cloud-based storage environments. 2.**File storage**, also called file-level or file-based storage—is a hierarchical storage methodology used to organize and store data on a computer hard drive or on network-attached storage (NAS) device. 3. **Object storage**, often referred to as object-based storage, is a data storage architecture for handling large amounts of unstructured data. **Object storage has thus become the most common mode of storage in the cloud given that it is highly distributed (and thus resilient), it leverages commodity hardware, data can be accessed easily over HTTP, and scale is not only essentially limitless but performance scales linearly as the cluster grows.**  
- **Networking**: Traditional networking hardware, such as routers and switches, are made available programmatically, typically through APIs. 
#### 1.2.1.2 Benefit:
- Pay-as-you-Go: Unlike traditional IT, IaaS does not require any upfront, capital expenditures, and end users are only billed for what they use.
- Speed: With IaaS, users can provision small or vast amounts of resources in a matter of minutes, testing new ideas quickly or scaling proven ones even quicker.
- Availability: Through things like multizone regions, the availability and resiliency of cloud applications can exceed traditional approaches.
- Scale: With seemingly limitless capacity and the ability to scale resources either automatically or with some supervision, it’s simple to go from one instance of an application or workload to many.
- Latency and performance: Given the broad geographic footprint of most IaaS providers, it’s easy to put apps and services closers to your users, reducing latency and improving performance.


## 1.2.2 Describe the usage of SaaS (Software as a service) and its benefit.
"SaaS", is a cloud computing offering that provides users with access to a vendor’s cloud-based software. Users do not install applications on their local devices.
**A service provider delivers software and applications through the internet. Users subscribe to the software and access it via the web or vendor APIs.**
#### 1.2.2.1 Usage: Subscription model:
- SaaS vendors provide users with software and applications via a subscription model.
- Users do not have to manage, install or upgrade software; SaaS providers manage this.
- Data is secure in the cloud; equipment failure does not result in loss of data.
- Use of resources can be scaled depending on service needs.
- Applications are accessible from almost any internet-connected device, from virtually anywhere in the world.
#### 1.2.1.2 Benefit:
- Users do not have to manage, install or upgrade software; SaaS providers manage this.
- Data is secure in the cloud; equipment failure does not result in loss of data.
- Scale: Use of resources can be scaled depending on service needs.
- Latency and performance: Applications are accessible from almost any internet-connected device, from virtually anywhere in the world.


## 1.2.3 Describe the usage of PaaS (Platform as a service) and its benefit.
**"PaaS", is is a cloud computing offering that provides users with a cloud environment in which they can develop, manage and deliver applications.** The PaaS provider hosts everything—servers, networks, storage, operating system software, databases—at their data center; the customer uses it all for a for a monthly fee based on usage and can purchase more resources on-demand as needed.
#### 1.2.3.1 Usage:
- API development and management: You can use PaaS to develop, run, manage, and secure application programming interfaces (APIs) and microservices.
- Internet of Things (IoT): PaaS can support the broad range of application environments, programming languages, and tools used for IoT deployments.
- Business analytics/intelligence: PaaS tools allow you to analyze your data to find business insights that enable more informed business decisions and predictions.
#### 1.2.3.2 Benefit:
- Faster time to market: You simply tap into the cloud service provider’s PaaS resources and begin developing immediately. All Stuff are built.
- Faster, easier, less-risky adoption of a wider range of resources.
- Easy, cost-effective scalability: With PaaS, you can scale on-demand by purchasing just the amount of additional capacity you need.
- Lower costs: Because there’s no infrastructure to build, your upfront costs are lower. Costs are also lower and more predictable because most PaaS providers charge customers based on usage.




