# Understand the benefits of the IBM Multicloud strategy
## 1.5.1. Explain a Single Cloud Environment
A single cloud environment is accomplished by using a single cloud provider to serve any and all applications or services that the organization decides to migrate to the cloud.Single cloud environments can utilize either private or public clouds, using whichever one better serves their current and future needs. Single cloud enable organizations to move workloads to the cloud as their needs grow, with the option to expand the number of virtualized servers if their need grows beyond a single cloud server’s limits.
- **Hybird model of either a private or public cloud, along with maintaining their on-premise infrastructure also fit into a single-cloud environment.** If  the private cloud is served by a different provider hybrid clouds that utilize both public and private clouds would be considered a multi-cloud environment.
- IaaS may also be considered single cloud if they utilize either a private or public cloud offering by an IaaS provider.

## 1.5.2. Explain a Multicloud Environment
Multi-cloud allows organizations to employ different cloud solutions suitable for different types of projects. A multi-cloud approach can include private clouds, public clouds, or a mixture of both, utilizing different providers. Multi-cloud environments use a mix of cloud offerings, sharing the workloads between them with cloud applications spread across different service providers. Different departments have different needs, and those differences, many organizations find, may be better utilized on different cloud platforms.

## 1.5.3. Discuss benefits of Single or Multicloud.
- Vendor Lock-in: **A single cloud provider** will have more leverage over an organization if they are their only provider. While a hybrid approach of one cloud provider and on-premises infrastructure can help offset lock in issues, in the case of a single cloud environment, the only other option is to move data and services back to the organization’s on-premises infrastructure, which is limiting and, depending on how much data is stored in the cloud, may not be feasible without another server purchase, **a multi-cloud** approach enables organizations to more quickly and migrate away from a provider they’re having issues with. **For organizations that include vendor lock-in as a major risk, a multi-cloud approach may be the better choice.**
- Flexibility: **With a single cloud provider**, you’re limited to only their offerings, and that sort of one-size-fits-all approach may be difficult to adapt all the requirements your organization requires or would like to utilize in the cloud.  **A multi-cloud strategy** is that it enables you to choose providers that offer innovations to fit your specific needs and workloads.
- Privacy and Security: In any type of cloud environment, security is a shared responsibility between the provider and the organization. **In a single cloud environment, this division is easier to tend to than in multi-cloud environments, which complicates the matter.**
- Complexity and sprawl: An app created on and for use on one cloud provider will require changes should the need arise to move it to another provider. Cloud sprawl occurs when the organization loses track of their cloud computing resources and can happen in **a single** or **multi-cloud organization** – yet the issue is compounded with multi-cloud.
